Fri Mar 23 10:04:01 EDT 2018


===== rogomatic


building:

  - should compile and link

  - i have a report for Lubuntu 14.0.1 32 Bit as able to 
    compile and run.  thank you for the report!

  - also have a report of rogomatic not working on a 64 bit 
    system.  if you change your CFLAGS to include -m32 it 
    will run.


code changes/fixes summary:

  - see the file ChangeLog.


strange happenings and known bugs:

  - when an item is known to be WORTHLESS it may be marked 
    in the pack (inven[pos].traits) for a while, but the reset 
    of the pack will clear this information and then the item 
    may then no longer be seen as WORTHLESS until it gets used 
    again and marked again.  this is seen most often with wands
    that have run out of charges which should then be discarded
    or destroyed but are held onto...)  [this issue is related 
    overall to the general problem of clearing the pack of 
    information when it really shouldn't be, a more intelligent 
    and comparative approach would solve this sort of problem, 
    but needs some thought, implementation and testing...]

  - doesn't find some passageways when searching and that 
    ends up wasting a lot of time or causing starvation.  some 
    searches find a new square but it looks like the player 
    doesn't notice it (not made a new goal to explore?...  dunno 
    why).

  - when teleported by a trap or by reading a scroll the hero may 
    land on an item in older versions of rogue (before version 
    r1.1.2).  rogomatic may not know it is on an item and try to 
    drop something.  which can cause a more loop exit error.  
    rogue version r1.1.2 or later contains a check to make sure a 
    teleported hero lands on a empty square.

    and

  - the more loop exit may not actually exit all the time.  not 
    sure why, but it might be related to the commented out code 
    for signals (see wish list item below).

  - the scroll related error that used to show up is back, but i've 
    worked around it for now by using a slightly modified vt100 
    terminfo.  see NEWS for details on the workaround if you want to 
    use it.  figure this out in detail (very low priority as long as 
    the work around keeps working and doesn't introduce new bugs or
    other issues).

  - i've seen the search count go negative at times and have yet to 
    look into why.

  - look into weapon handling again.  the problem is with unknown 
    weapons that turn out to be cursed.  currently, i work around 
    this by generating a "w" immediately followed by an ESC when 
    an item _might_ be cursed.  this should then give an indication 
    because a cursed weapon will always cause "you can't*it appears 
    to be cursed..." type message.

    the correct approach is to consider all "w" commands as multiple 
    step.  [this applies more broadly to not only weapon use, but all 
    items that might be cursed]  

    unfortunately, the initial design is wrong and used in many 
    places which makes this type of change very difficult.

    the easier and less disruptive set of changes would be to put a 
    top level check of the weapons/etc status in place in strategize() 
    and to use that to make sure that unknown weapons/etc are figured 
    out if they are important enough to be useful (preferably before 
    finding the hero in a battle where such information would be really 
    good to know).


completely new areas of coding:

  - some scrolls, potions, wands/staffs, rings, etc are not used 
    or any information they might provide is looking like it is 
    ignored.

  - goals could be stacked and popped or interrupted and subgoals 
    established.

  - searching looks like it completely misses some rooms or areas 
    and perhaps another method could be used after the others have
    failed.

  - making more genes and incorporating them into the player.

  - detecting cycles of commands so that searching can be more 
    efficient (tradeoff likely).


wishlist items and help me out things:

  - do the same sort of thing for armor handling that i did 
    for weapon handling (actually, this is now in question as 
    i keep finding things that aren't quite right with weapon 
    handling so don't wish to duplicate it until it gets fixed 
    -- see above discussion because i won't do anything for 
    changing armor stuff until i'm happy with weapon handling).

  - fix configure/automake stuff to work with ncurses debugging 
    includes and libraries

    - go through and make sure what is there is correct and 
      useful (get rid of old stuff which may no longer apply).

  - find a better home for this code than my machine.  must 
    be free and useable by me.

  - get 64 bit issues sorted out.  needs code review and fixes.

  - some of the code has been commented out dealing with signals, 
    i don't think i'll look at it anytime soon, but if you can sort 
    it out that would be great.  some alternatives are suggested in
    the man pages, but i've not studied or tested things by using 
    them yet.

  - some of the other programs i've actually never tried or know 
    what they do.

  - are the docs generated going to the right place in the man 
    pages?  are they still accurate?

  - license verification and documenting it.

  - see next section (ask me if i'm working on something before 
    putting time into it as i'd rather you work on something i'm 
    not...  :) )


screen not updating correctly:

  (may not happen any longer?)
  the internal representation of the screen is correct so these are 
what seems to be cosmetic flaws.

  - leftover '.', '@' and other characters in dark rooms

  - passages are sometimes blank instead of '#'

  - monster letters don't get removed

  - #'s get put to the left of where they belong


rogue and rog-o-matic other versions (someday maybe):

  - test against different versions of rogue other than my 5.4.4. 
    altered version.

    - yes, finally did some of this and it looks like making 
      changes for the bsdgames-nonfree version of rogue would be 
      too large.  i'm going to skip this, i'd rather work on 
      other things.

    - the rogue fork versions at coredumpcentral.org seem to 
      actually work somewhat, but i don't think any of them get 
      very far...  i'll skip this too.  some day perhaps i'll 
      get back to it.


bug reports, fixes, questions:

  ant at anthive dot com


